.\" Manpage for archcraft-pkg
.TH ARCHCRAFT-PKG 7 "2025-06-16" "1.0" "Archcraft Package System Manual"
.SH NAME
archcraft-pkg \- Alternative realtime crafting header coop reactivable and file-timesnapshot package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B archcraft-pkg
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Archcraft-pkg is a package structure developed for universal Linux distribution package management.
It supports universal usage across all Linux distributions and other operating systems.
Unlike traditional Arch-based tools such as
.B pacman
or
.B makepkg,
archcraft-pkg is developed independently and follows a unique package distribution architecture.
.SH PACKAGE STRUCTURE
The package integrity model is based on the
.B MAKEPKGBUILD
configuration foundation.

Unlike PKGBUILD,
.B MAKEPKGBUILD
allows operating system level tools to install packages universally on any supported OS.
For security reasons, only "building-craft" tools are recommended at the OS level,
though many tools remain free to use.
.SH PHILOSOPHY
.B MAKEPKGBUILD
aims to provide wide and flexible installation options for all operating systems.
Pragma methods and functions specific to distributions can be defined, including custom
installations targeting particular OS environments using
.B #PARAGMA : OS
directives.
.SH USING
You can specify the operating system you want with the
.B PARAGMA
parameter, which is one of the functions that comes with the software.

Example:
.PP
.nf
__PARAGMAS__=(
  "OS=cowhead"
)
.fi

Custom installation is supported for each operating system.
It is enough to have the installation instructions correct.
It is supported by super cow powers...
.SH LICENSE
This project is open source.
The official rights belong to Azccriminal Unlimited Organization.
.SH DEVELOPMENT NOTES
Version 1.0
.B ARCH-CRAFT-PKG REMOVE-BUILD
release includes:
.TP
1. Setup command:
A special installation command named
.B setup
has been added.  
It allows specifying permissions and installation source points similar to the Unix
.B install
command.

Example:
.RS
setup -Dm755 data_env1:src:/etc/archcraft
.RE

.TP
2. P2P Onion HTTP Source Download:
Support for downloading sources via P2P onion HTTP has been implemented.

Using the
.B data://
protocol, packages can be compiled and installed over desired protocols.
Security patch verification is recommended for all downloaded packages.

.TP
3. BUILD() Command:
Installation can be configured using system installation commands.
Only "build-in-craft" and "build-on-craft" commands are supported for security reasons.
Non-security installations allow using full system commands.

.TP
4. Git and Checksum Verification:
With this feature, you can update and compare the package with
.B GITCHECK
or verify the package with
.B CHECKSUM.

Example:
.PP
.nf
GITCHECK="https://github.com/azccriminal/makepkgbuild.git@v1.0"

CHECKSUM=(
  "src/makepkgbuild.py:deadc0de0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
)
.fi

It supports all authentication formats, but you can use it in cryptographic formats such as
.BR md5 ,
.BR shasum .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR pacman (8),
.BR install (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Azccriminal Unlimited Organization
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to <admin@azccriminal.space>
